MON-4021: feat: add the required utils for automated tests and integration with the docs (#2443)
openshift/cluster-monitoring-operator: Documentation/resources.adoc

Expose the Alertmanager web server within the cluster on the following ports:
* Port 9094 provides access to all the Alertmanager endpoints. Granting access requires binding a user to the `monitoring-alertmanager-view` role (for read-only operations) or `monitoring-alertmanager-edit` role in the `openshift-monitoring` project.
```
$ oc project openshift-monitoring
$ oc create serviceaccount am-ro-client
$ oc adm policy add-role-to-user monitoring-alertmanager-view \
  --role-namespace=openshift-monitoring --rolebinding-name=am-ro-client \
  --serviceaccount=am-ro-client

$ TOKEN=$(oc create token am-ro-client)
$ ROUTE=$(oc get route alertmanager-main -n openshift-monitoring -ojsonpath={.spec.host})
$ curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" -k "https://$ROUTE/api/v2/alerts?filter=alertname=Watchdog"
---

$ oc project openshift-monitoring
$ oc create serviceaccount am-rw-client
$ oc adm policy add-role-to-user monitoring-alertmanager-edit \
  --role-namespace=openshift-monitoring --rolebinding-name=am-rw-client \
  --serviceaccount=am-rw-client

$ TOKEN=$(oc create token am-rw-client)
$ ROUTE=$(oc get route alertmanager-main -n openshift-monitoring -ojsonpath={.spec.host})

> $ curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" -k "https://$ROUTE/api/v2/status"

Author: Edit sth, maybe a silence?

Author: formatted for md

---
```
* Port 9092 provides access to the Alertmanager endpoints restricted to a given project. Granting access requires binding a user to the `monitoring-rules-edit` cluster role or `monitoring-edit` cluster role in the project.

> * Port 9097 provides access to the `/metrics` endpoint only. This port is for internal use, and no other usage is guaranteed.

Reviewer: Hello @machine424 if it is not too much trouble, would it be possible to add as part of this PR one small change? To this section ([openshift-monitoring/thanos-querier](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-monitoring-operator/pull/2443/files#diff-1849614964d69a5b648750198efb5529dc00bb92dd56cb882cc6495f199bda9dL130-L133)):

from:
* Port 9091 provides access to all the Thanos Querier endpoints. Granting access requires binding a user to the `cluster-monitoring-view` cluster role.

to:

* Port 9091 provides access to all the Thanos Querier endpoints. Granting access requires binding a user to the `cluster-monitoring-view` cluster role or `cluster-monitoring-metrics-api` role.

It was raised in these comments: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/80127#discussion_r1716908947

cc: @simonpasquier

Author: I’m afraid this PR may take some time before getting merged. If the change is urgent or blocking something else, I think it’s better to do it in another PR.

Author: I'll take care of this in another PR.

Author: Taking a look. this would require some changes in the utils, opened https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MON-4053

Expose the Alertmanager web server within the cluster on the following ports:
* Port 9094 provides access to all the Alertmanager endpoints. Granting access requires binding a user to the `monitoring-alertmanager-view` role (for read-only operations) or `monitoring-alertmanager-edit` role in the `openshift-monitoring` project.

> ----
> # monitoring-alertmanager-view grants read permissions.
> $ oc project openshift-monitoring

Reviewer: In the docs it is better to remove comments from the code snippet. So what about something like this:
(and I also added `[source,terminal]`)

```suggestion
.List of commands you can run with the `monitoring-alertmanager-view` role (read permissions)
[source,terminal]
----
# monitoring-alertmanager-view grants read permissions.
$ oc project openshift-monitoring
```

Reviewer: Also, if we want the commands to be indented correctly under the Port 9094 bullet point, we need to add a plus sign:
```
+
.List of commands you can run...
```

$ oc create serviceaccount am-ro-client
$ oc adm policy add-role-to-user monitoring-alertmanager-view \
  --role-namespace=openshift-monitoring --rolebinding-name=am-ro-client \
  --serviceaccount=am-ro-client
$ TOKEN=$(oc create token am-ro-client)
$ ROUTE=$(oc get route alertmanager-main -n openshift-monitoring -ojsonpath={.spec.host})
$ curl -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN" -k --fail-with-body "https://$ROUTE/api/v2/alerts?filter=alertname=Watchdog"
----

> ----
> # monitoring-alertmanager-edit grants edit permissions.
> $ oc project openshift-monitoring
> $ oc create serviceaccount am-rw-client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.List of commands you can run with the `monitoring-alertmanager-edit` role (edit permissions)
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc project openshift-monitoring
$ oc create serviceaccount am-rw-client
```

Author: I'll create a ticket for the ascii formatting improvement.

Author: opened https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MON-4052
